Art Deco interior design is mainly associated with the World War I to World War II time periods. It’s a style that’s the embodiment of the Roaring 20’s, exuding bold and flashy. It borders on the bombastic yet maintains a fundamental elegance. The most defining aspects of Art Deco are:

Layered lighting: which is essential in creating the right atmosphere. Sconces and torchères beam light up or down to cast a flattering, sultry glow.
Polished and shiny chrome or brass fixtures.
Geometric shapes. Angular patterns, stepped designs and bold curves all highlight the look.
Furniture: lacquer, polished wood and metal, and glossy paint combine for a slick and gleaming effect.
Sprinkle glass and mirrored pieces throughout an art deco room to add to the reflective quality.
Graphic patterns and sleek textures. Mix vinyl, silk and satin for layers of tactile interest; choose rugs, carpets and upholstery with geometric, rhythmic motifs.

The Art Deco style was developed following World War I, to offer people a new style for a new era. The excitement and optimism of post-war Europe and America formed the basis for this glamorous and elegant style of design. Art Deco furniture is streamlined in design. It was modern and sleek for the time while still remaining comfortable. Many designs of furniture used industrial materials such as bent chrome base that gives the piece a rocking effect. Wood pieces are highly lacquered in black, with woods used including exotic Brazilian rosewood, ebony, birds-eye maple, and light maple veneers. Upholstery is typically of velour, making the rigid structural form more comfortable.

Because Art Deco interiors were relatively minimalist for the time, colours are used sparingly. Most colour schemes include black, combined with another colour such as green, red or white while accent colours are usually chrome and/or gold. Pale blue or dove grey were also commonly used to provide a softening effect against the harsh black.

Art Deco lighting is extensive including ceiling lights, floor lamps, table lamps and wall lamps. Floor lamps include tall torchieres in wrought iron or chrome with hand blown glass shades. Some are also of black wrought iron. Table lamps of bright nickel with white, clear, frosted, or colourful glass shades are common. Wall lamps can be bronze, aluminium, steel, or silver plated base metal with opaque white or colourful glass shades. All this lighting is warm, usually orange or yellow in colour.

Surfaces in the Art Deco style are generally sleek and clean, lacking any texture in order to contrast the more decorative and ornate objects and furniture within the space. Mirrors made of nickel, chrome, or silver are decorated with motifs of deer, peacocks, roses, and geometric shapes. Bronze sculptures are sleek covered with coloured or pearl beads. Desk sets of pen and pencil on a base are streamlined in design. Door handles and candlesticks moulded of nickel, chrome, or silver have woodsy or chevron shapes. Frosted glass or black and white marble are used for vases. Inlay is common and adds colour and design. Cameo glass vases show under layers of colour exposed by etching away top layers of white or clear glass. All these decorative and slightly over the top objects were a show of renewed wealth and prosperity after the harsh rationing endured during the war.

Glamorous and elegant style. 
Industrial metals and lacquered wood. 
Black as a main or background colour. 
Numerous light sources used. 
Bold, colourful patterns. 
Intentionally, overly decorative.