Industrial interior design is popular for decorating lofts and old buildings converted into living spaces, although it can be used for traditional apartments and houses too. What you need for this style is to create an illusion of rough surfaces and materials that suggest an industrial past. The simplest way to show roughness is to leave some walls or surfaces unfinished. In addition to some rough metal elements that will create an industrial atmosphere, you are looking for old industrial-looking objects that are made from steel, metal or wood. These items are preferably worn down or have been salvaged and recycled. For more ideas, check out the gallery below.

Color: Your color palette should steer clear of bright, bold colors; instead you should look for warm, neutral tones to fill your space. Shades and tones of gray work well when mixed with white to add a crisp, clean look.
Walls and Structure: Exposed bricks, steel beams or columns, exposed concrete, unfinished wood, and stainless steel work well for this style. Walls should also incorporate large pieces of art.
Floor: The most used floor option for an industrial style is polished concrete. It can be as rough and patchy as you want it to be. Timber or stone flooring are also good finishes that will help you achieve the industrial look.
Decor and Furniture: You should find big comfortable sofas and large scatter cushions to work alongside ‘industrial’ artwork and accent pieces. Plants will also inject life and color into any environment so look for a few really great large leaf plants and some significant pots to house them.
Lighting: Free standing floor lamps in a metal finish are a great source of lighting for this look. Try to add a few pendant lamps into your space as well.

—-------
From steel and stone to bricks and brass – industrial interior style is all about raw, exposed materials. Introduce metal fixtures or stripped back floorboards for a subtle but effective nod to the industrial trend. Statement lights are often a feature of industrial interiors and are particularly important for softening an otherwise cold space. Let your colour palette be guided by the raw materials used for a truly authentic industrial look.

INDUSTRIAL INTERIORS AREN’T PRECIOUS IN THE SLIGHTEST, WHICH MEANS YOU’LL NEVER FEEL THE NEED TO TIPTOE AROUND OR BE TOO CAREFUL IN YOUR HOME. BUT REMEMBER – THIS IS YOUR HOME AND NOT A FACTORY. LAYER IN TEXTILES, ART AND RUGS FOR A LIVED-IN LOOK THAT’S INVITING TO YOU AND YOUR GUESTS. I LOVE TO PAIR A VINTAGE TURKISH RUG WITH INDUSTRIAL STYLE LIGHTING & FURNITURE – THE CONTRAST MAKES IT INTERESTING

This is a look that hearkens back to the turn-of-the-century industrial era. It emphasizes liberal use of exposed steel with distressed wooden elements, frequently complemented by exposed brick walls. The modern variant commonly includes copper-tone accents. In terms of general feel, industrial decor is often rustic and mature.

I wrote a guide on Industrial Decor Ideas and Design, where you can learn how to furnish your home with this look. A notable point from this post is that industrial decor ranges from modern rustic with cleaner lines to rugged vintage with elaborate ornamentations. Depending on your tastes, you can opt for a lighter, chic look or a darker, antique design.

Explore the Industrial Furniture collection to shop for rustic coffee tables, tufted Chesterfield sofas, and other essential industrial modern pieces.