Minimalist interior design is one of the architectural centerpieces of the 20th century. Spare and streamlined while still being inviting, minimalism is charming in almost any space. With less clutter to wade through and mentally process, the innate beauty of each piece of furniture or art in the home really starts to stand out.
The less furniture the better! Think of which furniture can be eliminated without sacrificing comfort and livability. Go for a few pieces of plain, simple furniture with solid and subdued colors. Keep all surfaces clear and free of clutter.
Keep only the essentials! Floors can generally be anything (hardwood, concrete, etc.), but should be completely clean with one rug to add color and create a focal point for the room.
————
The minimalist trend started in the early twentieth century and continues to pervade many aspects of modern life, interior design included. Initially influenced by the simplicity of Japanese design, minimalism works on the principle that less is more. Minimalist interiors are stripped down to their essential elements and empty space is left to make the design statement. Use colour sparingly in minimalist rooms, the idea is not to distract or detract from its simplicity. Black, white and primary colours are often regarded as best for a minimalist space.

MINIMALIST STYLING IS NOT ABOUT CREATING A COLD, HARD, EMPTY WHITE BOX OF A HOME. IT IS ABOUT USING SIMPLE AND NATURAL FORMS, AND TAKING AWAY LAYERS WITHOUT LOSING THE AESTHETIC APPEAL OF THE SPACE. THE FOCUS IS ON SHAPE, COLOUR AND TEXTURE, WITH A MINIMUM OF FURNITURE AND ACCESSORIES

Minimalist architecture became popular in the late 1980s in London and New York, where designers worked to achieve simplicity, using white elements, cold white or blue lighting, large spaces with minimum objects and furniture. The concept of minimalist design is to strip everything down to its essential quality and achieve simplicity. Minimalism simplifies living spaces to reveal the essential quality of buildings and conveys simplicity in attitudes toward life. It is inspired from the Japanese traditional design and the concept of Zen philosophy.

The idea is not completely without ornamentation, but everything is as reduced down to a stage where you cannot remove anything further to improve the design, or without dis-improving it. The basic geometric forms, elements without decoration, simple materials and the repetitions of structures can represent a sense of order and essential quality. The movement of natural light in minimalist buildings reveals simple and clean spaces. In order to successfully implement a minimalist style storage is key in order to allow the space to remain minimal while still retaining the essential objects you use within that space. Minimalist kitchens are an excellent example of this, where clever use of space and hidden storage is regularly used.

Cool colours and white or blue lighting. 
Large open spaces with minimum furniture, essentials only. 
Reduced to ideal quantity. 
Storage is key to maintaining minimalism. 
Natural light used as a feature.