Modern interior design derives its influences from the modern art movement that preceded modern design. In painting, Modernism began with the Impressionists and others who used abstraction. Modern interior design grew out of the decorative arts, notably Art Deco, in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. It reached its peak in the 1950’s and 1960’s, which is why designers and decorators today may refer to modern design as being “mid-century.”
Shapes: One of the most important elements in modern interior design is form. Modern design uses geometric shapes, including rigid squares and rectangles along with smooth curves (“clean lines”). Perfect circles and ovals are also common in modern interior design. Modern interior design is also generally very simple and even minimal (see: Minimalist), with few ornamental flourishes to interrupt the even, unbroken lines and flat surfaces.
Materials: Modern interior design makes use of many materials. Wood and plastic are common, though designers often paint over wood with an opaque finish to cover the natural wood grain. Some designers do use natural wood as an organic contrast to more artificial shapes and materials. Glossy metals, such as stainless steel, are among the signature materials in modern interior spaces. The metal may be used for anything from the legs of a chair to the body of a lamp. Modern interior designers also make use of glass and plastic for their smooth, even surfaces.

Urban interior design stems from the modern designer lofts in the major cities. Taking cues from its cosmopolitan environment, urban modern is a fusion of various opposing and complementary traits. Minimalist modern, glamorous chic, ethnic heirlooms, and edgy experimental designs all collide in a distinctively 21st-century setting.

Larger furniture (sofas, beds, etc.) tends to be uniformly sleek with low-profile. Feel free to bring home trailblazing modern furniture designs. Decorative accents (pillows, mirrors, end tables, etc.) in urban decor often demands artistic and creative expression – add some elegant geometric designs, or vintage items with traditional embellishment.

The creation of the modern interior design style is credited to a group of European designers that started the Bauhaus School of Design in Germany in 1919. The Bauhaus philosophy is that form and function should combine in all designs. Modern Style design is clean-lined and focuses first and foremost on function and avoids the excessive accessories and decorative elements seen in many other styles. Some people feel the modern design is too simple, harsh or cold, however when well planned it can promote a sense of calmness and simplicity to your home.

The modern style is ideal for apartments and small spaces as it maximizes space and create the impression that a room is larger than it actually is. Minimal textures and bold geometric forms, neutral colours accented with a single bold colour along with polished finishes and asymmetrical balance are key identifying features of modern style interiors.

Clean lined design 
Function before form. 
Avoids excessive accessories and decorations 
Minimal use of textures 
Asymmetrical balance in furniture and layout